hi i'm coach Rob and I wanted to
illustrate another exercise that we do
with the aqua jogging belt and that's
what we call body shape l alright what
you're going to notice to see how his
legs are at 90 degrees and you see how
good of a job he's doing keeping his
spine straight up and down okay as you
get more comfortable with this and he's
been doing this for a long time so don't
think you're going to come out of the
block starting this right off but what
you want to do is imagine a gymnast
that's holding on to a set of rings and
they're holding their legs out at a 90
degree angle from the hips it's exactly
what this exercise is about once your
abs start to give out all you're going
to do is just allow them to drop you're
going to take the pressure off smaller
your back as well as your abdominals
okay and you're just going to draw them
right back up to 90 degrees now please
notice how slow and methodical he's
bringing that up if you start jerking to
try to get your legs into position
you're going to increase your risk of
injury so don't do that all motions
should be smooth methodical notice that
there's a nice pause at the top you want
to hold that for say 15 to 30 seconds
then you're just going to gently let
them drop back down now please
understand for those of you who have a
small back issue a lower back issue you
might want to add a little bit of extra
caution by actually decreasing the angle
between your hips and your thighs and
what I mean by that is excuse me not
decrease but increase the angle I'd
rather you to lean back just a little
bit more and that's going to take some
of the pressure off as small your back
until it becomes strong enough to be
able to handle this okay so if you have
any questions about how to make this
more difficult if you've watched any of
the other videos remember what I said
just put on a pair of old running shoes
and that's going to add a little bit
more load to the body as you bring those
legs up to 90 degrees you should be
filling this in your stomach muscles and
you should be filling it too small of
your back and most definitely into your
hip flexors so give this a shot if you
have any questions please feel free to
email me my email address is rob r 0 BB
the number three at earthlink net and as
always and thank you for watching the
video